>> Kyle Simpson: Our first core
unit is the types system and
specifically, how we deal with types which
we're gonna get to, it's called coercion.
It's that evil thing that you've
been told to avoid and you're gonna
find out from me, that I think it's
a critical missing component in your
applications that you don't understand,
and also utilize this within the code.
So, to understand it we actually have
to work our way from the beginning.
We have to work our way
from the ground up.
So we're gonna jump in and
talk about the primitive types.
Many of you have probably
heard this assertion before.
In JavaScript everything is an object.
>> Kyle Simpson: There is a reason for
this statement, but
this statement is a misconception,
this is false.
And that's a joke, by the way.
[LAUGH] because false is not an object.
False is an example of one of those
values that is not an object.
The reason behind why people
say everything is an object,
is because most of the values in
JavaScript can behave as objects.
But that does not make them objects.
We'll come back to that when we
talk about boxing a bit later.
So this is not a correct statement,
this is not an accurate statement but
it's one of the most pervasive statements.
I did search and
found thousands of examples of
people saying things like this.
And saying them authoritatively,
they've wrote books, and
they wrote blog post, and
they put their name on it.
And they said this is a fact, and
yet that's not what the specs says.
>> Kyle Simpson: Sometimes,
people argue with me that it
doesn't matter what the specs says.
All that matters is,
how it behaves in my code.
>> Kyle Simpson: To me that's
a lot like telling a scientist,
it doesn't matter why
the apple fell from the tree.
We saw it falling, it doesn't matter why.
Yes it does, it absolutely does,
it absolutely matters why.
So, if we look at JavaScript,
in this specification right near the very
top actually, there's not much
before this in the specification,
it tells us straight up that
there are primitive types.
Okay, and you'll see them listed here
undefined, null, boolean, strings, symbol,
number, and object.
It list those out as we
referred to as primitive types.
So let's dive in to the primitive types,
to understand what they are and
how they differ or
how they are distinct from,
just simply referring to
everything as an object.
>> Kyle Simpson: Number one,
there is an undefined type.
And as we'll see, the undefined type
has one and only one value in it, and
it is the undefined value.
There's also string type.
These are primitive strings,
not the string object that you
create in something like Java.
This is just the double quotes or
the single quotes string literal, right?
This is a primitive string.
There's a type called string,
there's a type called number,
refers to all of JavaScript's numbers,
although there's a little caveat
there we'll come back to in a second.
There's a type called boolean,
that refers to the specific two values,
true and false.
In some languages, in historical
days there was only zeroes and
ones to reference the idea of true and
false.
JavaScript actually has
values called true and false.
And they are a special type.
And they behave differently,
than this other types.
And then, there's the object type.
And yes, the object is a type.
It has many subtypes to it.
And I think that's where
a lot of people get confused,
is that just because they're subtypes.
Or just because there
something called boxing,
where something can behave as an object,
that doesn't make it an object.
There are things that are objects.
So this are some primitive types,
that exist in the JavaScript language.
When you say X equals the number 42,
or you say X equals quotes 42,
you are saying as a developer, there
is a different intent that I have for
the behavior I expect out of this value.
That's what we mean by a type.
The set of intrinsic characteristics,
that we expect to be able
to do with that value.
So if we expect something different
from numbers we can an arithmetic,
then what we can do with strings
like accessing characters,
those are different values I mean
different values types, okay?
There is also add it recently
a few years back in years six,
a lesser none type but the primitives
of types on the less call simple,
symbols don't get use to
often a lot of white for
JavaScript that use basically you
create suto private keys on objects.
Not really private, but kinda obscure.
So you don't see those used a lot, more
probably used in frameworks than you're
gonna see in your general JavaScript code,
but it is a primitive type nonetheless.
And then we have some other types, or
other things that may behave like
types that we should ask about.
For example, what happens or
how are we dealing with things
that have never been declared?
>> Kyle Simpson: Is that a type?
Sorta but not really, the spec
doesn't really define it as a type.
But it has a behavior to it,
that we can expect and understand, and so
if it has a behavior we could sorta at
least with air quotes say it's a type.
>> Kyle Simpson: What about null,
I didn't put that in the list and
JavaScript calls that a type.
But it's not in the list,
so why is it over here?
Well it's because,
it's a little bit corcky.
>> Kyle Simpson: And this is just
straight up, a historical bug and
we'll see in just a moment.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
what about functions though?
JavaScript didn't even list out function.
If you look closely in that previous list,
it didn't list out function and yet
we know intuitively,
that values which are functions
have a very specific behavior, that is
different from values that are numbers for
say for example, so isn't it a type.
JavaScript refers to functions essentially
as a subtype of the object type.
In fact, in certain places refers
to them as callable objects.
So, it's sorta a type but
a subtype rather than a top level type.
Arrays, we use this all the time, and
it seems like they definitely
have a specific behavior.
They're numerically indexed, and
they have a length property
that automatically updates.
And they have various methods to them.
So, are they a type?
Again, the best way to think about them,
the best mental model I've come up with is
that it's a subtype of the object type.
It's a special kinda object
with this numeric indexing.
A special kinda object that has this
magical length property gather thing on
it, okay?
So it's not really a top level type, but
it's certainly a kinda value that has
a certain kinda behavior, and it's
useful for us to be able to distinguish.
If we need to do something with an array,
and we have this value we don't know if
it's array,
we need to determine is it an array?
>> Kyle Simpson: Speaking of determining,
how are we gonna determine
all of this things?
And I'm gonna throw in,
a little of forward thinking stuff.
Because at the moment,
this isn't actually in the spec.
But it's like, stage three and
probably gonna land in the spec,
at least I hope soon.
And that's finally the JavaScript
getting big and support, bigint support,
large integer support.
And when it does come to JavaScript,
almost certainly when it lands in
the language,
it's gonna be another primitive type.
So it's on this list only because,
it's not actually here but
it's actually already implemented for
example in V8.
So in all of your Chrome based
environments including node,
you have big and support.
>> Kyle Simpson: And it's likely gonna
land officially, within the language.
>> Kyle Simpson: There is obviously
a caveat that until it's there,
it's not there.
And things have been,
late stage three almost stage four and
then been completely deleted.
So I can't guarantee,
that there will be bigints but
it's pretty certain at this point,
I'd say at least 95%.
So, this are some things that are values
that we can expect certain characteristics
from, and there's a critical detail
that I don't want you to miss here,
which is that most of this
are not objects, right?
This are objects, all of this not objects.
All of this may have or at least
many of these may have object like
behaviors that you can opt into, but
they are definitely not objects.
Unlike languages like C plus plus and
Java, in JavaScript and
in other dynamically typed languages,
it is not the variables that have types.
It is the values themselves
that have types.
And that matches with that instinctual
definition I just gave types
that they assumed or instinctual
characteristics we expect from the values.
Well, of course.
Let's refer to them as value types.
That's a better way of
distinguishing it than to try to get
the types policed to jump all over us and
tell us, no this don't qualify as types.
I've had that happen.
I've had that argument many of time, okay?
As far as I'm concern, if JavaScript
calls it a type, I think it's a type.